Bank Holidays
Overview
The Bank Holidays API provides access to data about when bank holidays are in England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

Documentation
Bank Holidays documentation

Endpoint
https://www.gov.uk/bank-holidays.json

calendars functionality is now provided by frontend.

Calendars
Serves calendars in a clear and accessible format, along with JSON and iCal exports of the data.

Screenshots
Screenshot

Live examples
Bank Holidays
Daylight Savings Time
Nomenclature
scope: each type of calendar (eg daylight saving, bank holidays) is known as a scope. A scope has its own view templates, JSON data source and primary route.
Technical documentation
This is a Ruby on Rails application that serves static pages based on JSON files. It does not use a database.

JSON data files are stored in lib/data/<scope>.json, with a divisions hash for separate data per region (united-kingdom, england-and-wales, scotland or northern-ireland).

Each scope's data file contains a list of divisions, containing a list of years, each with a list of events:

{
  "title": "UK bank holidays",
  "description": "UK bank holidays calendar - see UK bank holidays and public holidays for 2012 and 2013",
  "divisions": {
    "england-and-wales": {
      "title": "England and Wales",
      "2011": [{
        "title": "New Year's Day",
        "date": "02/01/2011",
        "notes": "Substitute day"
      }]
    }
  }
}
The division title attribute is optional. If this is not present the slug will be humanized and used instead.

Dependencies
publishing-api: this app sends data to the content-store.
Additional information
Publishing to GOV.UK
bundle exec rake publishing_api:publish will send the calendars to the publishing-api.
Search indexing
Is performed automatically on data sent to publishing api.
Generate bank holidays JSON
A rake task has been created to generate the bank holidays JSON for a given year. They need to be then inserted, and modified to take into account any additions/modifications made by proclamation. Run the rake task like this:

bundle exec rake bank_holidays:generate_json[2016]
Canonical sources
For summer time, we can use the Summer Time Act 1972.

Bank holidays are determined both by law and by proclamation. We use the following legislation: the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 and the St Andrew's Day Bank Holiday Act.

The proclamations of holidays are published in The Gazette. Holidays are announced there 6 months to one year in advance, usually between the months of May and July for the following year.

UK bank holidays
England and WalesScotlandNorthern Ireland
The next bank holiday in England and Wales is
26 August
Summer bank holiday
Upcoming bank holidays in England and Wales
2024
Date	Day of the week	Bank holiday
26 August	Monday	Summer bank holiday
25 December	Wednesday	Christmas Day
26 December	Thursday	Boxing Day
2025
Date	Day of the week	Bank holiday
1 January	Wednesday	New Year’s Day
18 April	Friday	Good Friday
21 April	Monday	Easter Monday
5 May	Monday	Early May bank holiday
26 May	Monday	Spring bank holiday
25 August	Monday	Summer bank holiday
25 December	Thursday	Christmas Day
26 December	Friday	Boxing Day
2026
Date	Day of the week	Bank holiday
1 January	Thursday	New Year’s Day
3 April	Friday	Good Friday
6 April	Monday	Easter Monday
4 May	Monday	Early May bank holiday
25 May	Monday	Spring bank holiday
31 August	Monday	Summer bank holiday
25 December	Friday	Christmas Day
28 December	Monday	Boxing Day (substitute day)
If a bank holiday is on a weekend, a ‘substitute’ weekday becomes a bank holiday, normally the following Monday.

Your employer does not have to give you paid leave on bank or public holidays.

Bank holidays might affect how and when your benefits are paid.

This guide is also available in Welsh (Cymraeg).
Add bank holidays for England and Wales to your calendar (ICS, 14KB)
Past bank holidays in England and Wales
2024
Date	Day of the week	Bank holiday
27 May	Monday	Spring bank holiday
6 May	Monday	Early May bank holiday
1 April	Monday	Easter Monday
29 March	Friday	Good Friday
1 January	Monday	New Year’s Day
2023
Date	Day of the week	Bank holiday
26 December	Tuesday	Boxing Day
25 December	Monday	Christmas Day
28 August	Monday	Summer bank holiday
29 May	Monday	Spring bank holiday
8 May	Monday	Bank holiday for the coronation of King Charles III
1 May	Monday	Early May bank holiday
10 April	Monday	Easter Monday
7 April	Friday	Good Friday
2 January	Monday	New Year’s Day (substitute day)
2022
Date	Day of the week	Bank holiday
27 December	Tuesday	Christmas Day (substitute day)
26 December	Monday	Boxing Day
19 September	Monday	Bank Holiday for the State Funeral of Queen Elizabeth II
29 August	Monday	Summer bank holiday
3 June	Friday	Platinum Jubilee bank holiday
2 June	Thursday	Spring bank holiday
2 May	Monday	Early May bank holiday
18 April	Monday	Easter Monday
15 April	Friday	Good Friday
3 January	Monday	New Year’s Day (substitute day)
2021
Date	Day of the week	Bank holiday
28 December	Tuesday	Boxing Day (substitute day)
27 December	Monday	Christmas Day (substitute day)
30 August	Monday	Summer bank holiday
31 May	Monday	Spring bank holiday
3 May	Monday	Early May bank holiday
5 April	Monday	Easter Monday
2 April	Friday	Good Friday
1 January	Friday	New Year’s Day
2020
Date	Day of the week	Bank holiday
28 December	Monday	Boxing Day (substitute day)
25 December	Friday	Christmas Day
31 August	Monday	Summer bank holiday
25 May	Monday	Spring bank holiday
8 May	Friday	Early May bank holiday (VE day)
13 April	Monday	Easter Monday
10 April	Friday	Good Friday
1 January	Wednesday	New Year’s Day
2019
Date	Day of the week	Bank holiday
26 December	Thursday	Boxing Day
25 December	Wednesday	Christmas Day
26 August	Monday	Summer bank holiday
27 May	Monday	Spring bank holiday
6 May	Monday	Early May bank holiday
22 April	Monday	Easter Monday
19 April	Friday	Good Friday
1 January	Tuesday	New Year’s Day
2018
Date	Day of the week	Bank holiday
26 December	Wednesday	Boxing Day
25 December	Tuesday	Christmas Day
27 August	Monday	Summer bank holiday
28 May	Monday	Spring bank holiday
7 May	Monday	Early May bank holiday
2 April	Monday	Easter Monday
30 March	Friday	Good Friday
1 January	Monday	New Year’s Day