See also:
Hello, salut! dataset
Hello, world! bot
Hello as a service
Say hello to your visitors in their native language!

Get your visitor's IP address and/or default language using your preferred methods
Make a call to HelloSalut
Say hello!
You can also skip the first step and use the fully automatic mode. Have a look at sites using HelloSalut.

How to use
Calling HelloSalut with your visitor's IP address and their default language setting
First you will need to find out your visitor's default language and his or her IP address (for fallback). Example functions:

getting user's IP address
retrieving user's default language
You are free to use your own methods.
Once we have user's language and IP address we'll call http://stefanbohacek.com/hellosalut/?lang=LANGUAGECODE&ip=IPADDRESS and HelloSalut will return the country code (or language code) and the translation for the word "Hello".

Some examples:

https://hellosalut.stefanbohacek.dev/?lang=ja
https://hellosalut.stefanbohacek.dev/?ip=89.120.120.120
https://hellosalut.stefanbohacek.dev/?cc=nl
If you have a Mashape or GitHub account, you can try the API on mashape.com

Note: The language setting has a higher priority than IP. You can choose to either only supply the IP address or only the language (not recommended right now due to limited amount of supported languages, see below for full list). If the language or IP can not be matched, default value of "Hello" will be returned.

	
Now we can say hello!
	
Automatic mode
You can make a call to http://stefanbohacek.com/hellosalut/?mode=auto to have HelloSalut determine the correct language automatically. The functions currently in use are the same as example functions above.

Beta
The service is currently in beta while I'm adding more countries and languages. This is a list of countries that are currently supported based on IP address:

Afghanistan, Albania, American Samoa, Andorra, Angola, Anguilla, Antarctica, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bermuda, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, British Indian Ocean Territory, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma (Myanmar), Burundi, Cambodia, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Europe, Finland, France, French Guiana, French Polynesia, French Southern Territories, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guyana, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Korea (North), Korea (South), Laos, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Mongolia, Nepal, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, New Zealand, Niger, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Republic of Serbia, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia , Serbia and Montenegro, Singapore, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, Uruguay, Venezuela, Vietnam, Virgin Islands (British) and Virgin Islands (U.S.)

Supported browser languages:

ar, az, be, bg, bn, bs, cs, da, de, dz, el, en, en-gb, en-us, es, et, fa, fi, fil, fr, he, hi, hr, hu, hy, id, is, it, ja, ka, kk, km, ko, lb, lo, lt, lv, mk, mn, ms, my, ne, no, pl, pt, ro, ru, sk, sl, sq, sr, sv, sw, th, tk, uk, vi, zh

If you come across any issues, notice any mistakes in translations or would like me to add a particular country or language sooner, please let me know at stefan@stefanbohacek.com or @stefan Also feel free to contact me if you would like your site to be listed below.

Sites using HelloSalut
Hello world! (a HelloSalut demo page)
Open source
The database (which is a modified version of the database from ip2nation.com) and the PHP code that handles it are available on Github.

Notes
HTTPS version is also supported