Arul's Public APIs

Home > API Usage
This section contains a list of publicly available FREE web services that you can use. There is currently no usage restriction, but please be reasonable in making curl calls, jQuery, Postman, Ajax or other API calls. Thank you.

List of web services:

Ezoic
Get IP Address in text format
Get IP Address in JSON format
1. Get IP Address in text format
This web service returns your IP address in text format.

URL: https://api.aruljohn.com/ip

PARAMETERS: none

Ezoic
RETURN TYPE: text

EXAMPLE:

curl https://api.aruljohn.com/ip
OUTPUT:

199.199.199.199
2. Get IP Address in JSON format
This web service returns your IP address in JSON format.

URL: https://api.aruljohn.com/ip/json

PARAMETERS: none

RETURN TYPE: JSON

EXAMPLE:

curl https://api.aruljohn.com/ip/json
OUTPUT:

{"ip":"199.199.199.199"}
What happened to the Costco API and other APIs?
Since a few of the other APIs were not being used actively and others were being abused, we removed them.


Ezoic
   
Search blog posts
Categories

-select category-

Ezoic
Recent Articles
How to Make the Fastest Awana Grand Prix Pinewood Derby Car
How to Check the Debian Linux Version
How to install Python 3.12.5 on Debian 11 bullseye
Refresh LinkedIn Post Text and Thumbnail Cache
How to install Python 3.12.5 from source
2024 Sales Tax Holidays by State in the USA | Sales Tax Free Weekends
How to Enable iMessages After Moving to Visible by Verizon
Popular Articles
How to find IP address of email sender
How to install Python 3.12 on Debian
What to pack when visiting the Philippines 🇵🇭
Common scams targeting senior citizens
How to set up a natural shrimp aquarium
Control your Christmas RGB lights from your website using a Raspberry Pi
Comments
✏ Blog Comments
Our books
ACSL Elementary Division Study Guide

Number Systems Practice Exercises

 ACSL Elementary Division Book Number Systems Practice Exercises Book
For the Spirit that God has given us does not make us timid; instead, His Spirit fills us with power, love, and self-control.
~ 2 Timothy 1:7
About
My name is Arul and I work as a software engineer at NASA. This website consists of a collection of tools, utilities and articles I wrote over the last 24 years. The Blog section covers several articles from technical to aquarium topics. You will also find free APIs that you can use in your applications.