


  



Data Dragon — Riot API Libraries  documentation




























 Riot API Libraries
          

          
          

                latest
              









Contents:

Riot API Libraries
Data Dragon
Caching
Community Dragon
Common Issues
Most Recent Version
Patch Data
Languages


Your Application
PUUIDs and Other IDs
LCU - The League Client
Mobile Apps (& CORS Error)
Replay API
Collecting Data
Info About Specific Data
Identifying Champion Positions







Riot API Libraries





Docs »
Data Dragon

 Edit on GitHub







Data Dragon¶
Data Dragon, or ddragon for short, is a set of static data files that provides images and info about champions, runes, and items. This includes info to translate champion IDs to names.
You can download the entire set of data and images by downloading this tarball (make sure to change the * version * to the latest patch): https://ddragon.leagueoflegends.com/cdn/dragontail-12.6.1.tgz. The file is about 1 GB.
You can also access individual files by going to specific URLs, for example: http://ddragon.leagueoflegends.com/cdn/12.6.1/data/en_US/champion.json.

Caching¶
Because the data in ddragon only changes when new patches come out, you can cache the data by saving it to your computer. Your app can then load the data from disk rather than requesting it over the www. This will speed up your app and reduce the load on Riot’s servers, which ensures the servers don’t go down due to abnormally high usage.
In general, it’s a good idea to cache data that you will use often and that doesn’t change often.


Community Dragon¶
Community Dragon, or cdragon for short, is a massive collection of community-generated files to augment the data in ddragon.
If you can’t find what you’re looking for in ddragon, look in cdragon. This is a useful link to start at. If you can’t find what you’re looking for because there’s so many files and folders to go through, ask on Discord for help.
One commonly sought-after set of images are the rune stat images, which can be found here.


Common Issues¶

If You can’t find something in ddragon, Look in cdragon or ask on Discord.
The image filenames for champions, items, etc. can be found by looking at the image.full fields in the json data.
Monkeyking. Yes, Wukong’s internal name is monkeyking. You can identify the correct internal name for every champion by looking at the key attribute in the champion.json file.
The data in ddragon is inaccurate, especially champion spell data and item stats. This is an unfortunate situation that is surprisingly difficult to solve. If you want to know why, you can ask on Discord. There is no perfect or even close to perfect source for champion spell data, despite significant effort. The League Wikia is your best resource.
If a new patch came out but ddragon hasn’t updated, wait a little while. Sometimes it takes two days after a patch for the new version of ddragon to be released. Other times ddragon is two days ahead of the patch.
Data from Data Dragon is encoded using UTF-8. To ensure you receive a properly encoded response include the Accept-Charset header specifying UTF-8 as the desired response encoding.
Other issues: You may be able to find some information by searching the github issues, otherwise ask on Discord.



Most Recent Version¶
You can get the latest version of ddragon from the version.json file.
Because patches get released on different regions at different times, one region may be on the new version of ddragon while another region may be be on an old version. You can check which patch a region is on by looking at the realms files for each region. The one for North America can be found at https://ddragon.leagueoflegends.com/realms/na.json. The exact time the patch gets released on a region may not correspond to exactly when the corresponding realm file is updated to the new patch.


Patch Data¶
ddragon does not provide data for when patches were released. Instead, you can find this data on cdragon’s github. See the readme on github for information about how to use the file.


Languages¶
The languages supported by ddragon can be found here.






CODE
LANGUAGE



cs_CZ
Czech (Czech Republic)

el_GR
Greek (Greece)

pl_PL
Polish (Poland)

ro_RO
Romanian (Romania)

hu_HU
Hungarian (Hungary)

en_GB
English (United Kingdom)

de_DE
German (Germany)

es_ES
Spanish (Spain)

it_IT
Italian (Italy)

fr_FR
French (France)

ja_JP
Japanese (Japan)

ko_KR
Korean (Korea)

es_MX
Spanish (Mexico)

es_AR
Spanish (Argentina)

pt_BR
Portuguese (Brazil)

en_US
English (United States)

en_AU
English (Australia)

ru_RU
Russian (Russia)

tr_TR
Turkish (Turkey)

ms_MY
Malay (Malaysia)

en_PH
English (Republic of the Philippines)

en_SG
English (Singapore)

th_TH
Thai (Thailand)

vn_VN
Vietnamese (Viet Nam)

id_ID
Indonesian (Indonesia)

zh_MY
Chinese (Malaysia)

zh_CN
Chinese (China)

zh_TW
Chinese (Taiwan)









Next 
 Previous




        © Copyright 2019, Riot API Community
      
        
          Revision 0bf544d2.
        


  Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs. 








 Read the Docs
      v: latest
      



Versions
latest


Downloads
pdf
html
epub


On Read the Docs

Project Home


Builds



      Free document hosting provided by Read the Docs.

    



