



ExchangeRate-API - Exchange Rates API Documentation


























Product

Exchange Rate API
API Uptime
Long Term Support
Our Data



Documentation


Plans


Status


Support


Get Free Key


Sign In









Toggle Docs Index






General API Info


Overview


Supported Currencies


Authentication




API Endpoints


Standard Response


Pair Conversion


Enriched Data


Historical Data


Supported Codes


API Request Quota


Open Access




Product Pages


Product Homepage


Customer Support




Code Examples


PHP


Python


Java


Ruby


Objective C


Perl


C#








ExchangeRate-API Documentation

Broad overview of our currency conversion API and available endpoints.




⚡ Fast Start
You'll want our Standard endpoint to get started right away. This returns a JSON object with exchange rates from your base currency to all our supported codes.

⚙️ Main API
Standard
This is our main API response format - given a supplied base currency it will return the whole list of other currencies we support and their corresponding exchange rates.
Pair Conversion
Submit a pair of codes and optional amount in your request. You'll get back the exchange rate between the codes and the conversion of the optional amount if you included it.

🧪 Advanced API Endpoints
We also have some endpoints with extra functionality. These are only available for users on our Pro, Business or Volume Plans.
Enriched Data
This endpoint includes extra localization data as well as the normal exchange rate. For each currency code you'll get the currency name, its display symbol, associated region or country and a flag image URL.
Historical Data
Fetch exchange rates data from a specific date in the past. This endpoint has an easy to use request format and data going all the way back to 1990 for some currency pairs.

💸 Options For Free Accounts
We offer a popular and reliable free exchange rates API if that's your preference. You can get started by signing up for a Free Plan - this plan includes use of our Standard endpoint and Pair Conversion endpoint as well as the ability to switch base currency.
➡️️​ If you have any questions about our exchange rate API documentation please contact us!











About

Getting currency conversion data by API has been made easy since ExchangeRate-API was launched in 2010.


Since then our service has responded to many billions of requests sent by tens of thousands of developers.


Our exchange rate API's high uptime and reliable currency data are now a trusted choice - give our service a try!



Navigate


Home Page


Sign In


Get API Key


Historical Exchange Rates API


API Documentation


Supported Currency Codes


API Status




Contact Us
Support / Sales / Anything Else!
» support@exchangerate-api.com
We're proud of our customer service - please send through any queries so we can assist.







ExchangeRate-API is a product of AYR Tech (Pty) Ltd.Privacy, Terms & Conditions of Use© 2010 - 2024






